- [Instructor] Now let's take a look at the features
of the Spring MVC framework.
Firstly, it is built on top of the Servlet JSP API,
which is from the Java Enterprise space,
which essentially means that all the concepts
of HTTP request, response, servlets, filters,
listeners, Java Server Pages, Java Server Pages Tag Library,
all of those are pretty much the same
that we've already worked on if we have
worked on Servlet API before.
Spring MVC has put a layer on top of it, of course,
with more optimization.
Spring always says one line.
If you follow the basic Java and Spring convention,
then it will be very easy to build a minimum viable product
with Spring MVC framework.
You do not have to stuff in a lot of configuration
for it to be working in the initial startup.
When you talk about Spring MVC, we have said, of course,
that it is based on Model-View-Controller design pattern
and each of these components has a very clear
distinction of responsibilities.
So all of these components are independent of each other,
none of them know what the other does,
which means there's a clear separation of concerns
and hence an increased maintainability of the code.
Of course, Spring MVC offers you a plain old Java object,
which is POJO based, light weight development.
We've spoken before that the classes that you write
in Spring MVC need not extend or implement
classes and interfaces, which means it is not
tightly bound by the framework.
It also means that you will have a freedom
to go and extend some other API classes,
which may be crucial for your application logic.
Having said all of that, if you do not want to follow
the convention, of course there's a high level
of possible customization that you can possibly do
with Spring MVC.
For example, how are your URLs going to be mapped?
How are your teams supposed to be resolved?
How is locale resolution done?
How are validations carried out?
What kind of messages do you want to have
for your validations?
All of these features can be very easily customized
with the help of this Spring MVC framework.
The point that I have on my slide right now
is very important.
Spring MVC never couples tightly
with a particular view technology.
Let's say today you're working on Java Server Pages,
but you need not stick to it.
There are other templating engines,
for example, Velocity, Freemarker, Thymeleaf,
and all these kind of templating pages
that you can possibly integrate in your application.
If you are not satisfied with either of them,
you also have an option to write your own views
by implementing the view interface
inside the Spring MVC framework.
Not only does Spring MVC provide you a bunch
of HTTP endpoints, but it provides you a way
to develop RESTful web services,
which is such a common thing in the industry today.
If you are working on a product, you often have
this very common requirement of opening up a host
of RESTful endpoints for your clients accessing data
in various ways.
Right, so that's not the exhaustive list of features
that we have in Spring MVC.
There are many more.
But if you want to have a basic startup
that's required to work with this framework,
this is the list of features that you definitely
need to know.
Alternately, just remember that Spring MVC,
sometimes referred to as Spring Web MVC,
that's because the source code has been labeled like that.
But you can rest assured that both of them
are exactly the same.